VIDEO 1    =>   Introduction to Realtional Database Management System.

RDBMS - Relational data is simply data with relationships.Relational Database Management System is simply Relational Database and a Management system. As DBMS it is a complete software that allows us to store and manipulate some relational data.


==============================================================================================================


VIDEO 2 => Relationship of Data Model

reationship in the form of tables, There are multiple types of realtionship,First is One to One Relationship.In this relationship,Relationship of data is one to one Like Adhar card no.

ii)Secound Realtionship is One to many realtionship,This realtion is Data entity is related to many Data .For Example Country Data is Realted to resident.It has mirror Relationship is many to One Relationship,Many data Entities are related to one data.For Example Resident Entity is related to country Entities.

iii)Many to Many Realtionship  these realtionship is many data entites realted to many data.
for Example tider many user can realted to many other user.


==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 3 => Keys in RDBMS

key is column or multiple column that uniquely identifies a row in a Table.

There are seven keys

i)Super key
ii)Candidate key
iii)Primary Key
iv)Foreign Key.
v)Alternate Key
Vi)Composite Key
vii)Artifical Key


i)Super key =>  Set of all possible key that can find uniquely identity each row.

ii)Candidate key => These key havew multiple colums to find unique row,one it needs to necessary key to find unique id. 

iii)Primary Key => It is a key choosen from from candidaite key that is used as unique indentifer.

iv)Alternate key => It is key all keys from candidate key but not including Primary key.

v) Foreign key => A foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a table that refers to the primary key of another table,establishing a relationship between the two tables in a relational database.

vi)Composite Key =>It is combination of key.

vii) Artifical key => An artificial key is a key generated by a database management system to uniquely identify records in a database table. This is usually done if the primary key combination is too lengthy or there exists no primary key.


==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 4 => Normalization Intro

The main of normalization is to eliminate or reduce anamalies that can occur when data is updated,inserted or deleted.


update anamaly  =>  update anamaly is update the data but resulted in the deletation of the data.

deletion anamaly => Deletation anamaly occurs when deleting a row data from table result in the unintended loss of other data.

Insertion anamoly => attempting to insert new data in the table.but being unable to do due to missing or incomplete information.

==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 5 => 1NF  [first normal form]

i) 1NF satisfiy two condition which are first is there should no cell in the which have multiple values.Secound is there should be one primary key.

ii)If there is no primary key then with the help of primary composite key we get primary key.

ii) if two conditrion matches the tables then it is called 1NF[1 normal form]


==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 6 => 2NF [secound normal form]

i) 2NF needs to satisfy two condition first is table is in 1NF form and secound is tables should not have partially functional dependency.
ii)If this not happens you need to make another which have paritally functional tables.


==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 7 => 3NF[thrid normal form]

i)

==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 8 => BCNF

i)

==============================================================================================================

VIDEO 9 => JOINS

Combining data from multiple tables to represent data is called join.It is achive from SQL queries.

There are four types of join.

i)inner join ==> In inner join helps to get data from the tables which are multiple tables where data present in multiple tables [common data present in multiple tables]


ii)Full join[Full outer join] ==> In full join combines result all the data from mutiple tables.

iii)Left join ==> In left join resulted all data from left data[tables 1] and common data from multiple [tables 2] data.

iv)Right Join ==> In right join resulted all data from right table and common data from multiple data.
